Nearly everyone in Leicester knew how the club's owner left games. Tennant used to point the helicopter out to his three-year-old son from his house in Wigston, on the outskirts of the city, four miles away.

"It is vivid in my mind," he said. "I used to sit in the back garden with my son and say 'there is Leicester City flying'.

"Sometimes we are sent out to jobs and what you are initially told is happening doesn't turn out to be 100% accurate. We heard it was a helicopter crash but we had to treat it like any other job.

"That night, I was in charge of the second appliance. We were told there had been multiple calls, which is a good indication the reported incident has actually happened and that there were people on board the helicopter.

"The King Power Stadium was the address we had. But the stadium itself is vast. As we approached, I clocked the smoke on the left-hand side. I remember the driver saying 'whereabouts, any idea?' I remember saying 'left, left, go left'. There were still people walking. The police were there."

The crews were on the scene within minutes of the helicopter crashing.

At that point, there was no thought of who was involved. This is when training takes over, as Joe Robinson recalls: "You just go into work mode. It was an obvious scene. There was fire to deal with. It was a helicopter.

"It is hard to describe your feelings at that point. It is a cliche but it is something we get used to. People in other lines of work get used to certain things in their day and for us, it is not normal, but we learn to deal with it.

"And we are there to save everybody - it doesn't matter whether it is the chairman of a football club or a homeless person. We are there to rescue someone or make the situation better. In the moment it is a helicopter crash with people on it.

"The bigger picture came afterwards with all the media coverage. That is when it sinks in."

"I had friends who are Leicester fans, sending me messages asking me if I was there and if I could tell them anything," said Tennant. "There is nothing you can say until the names are released. The families need to hear information first from the right channels."

As the situation changed and reinforcements arrived, control of the situation was handed over.

A sense of loss took over for Robinson. "We are here to make things better," he said. "When something isn't better… it doesn't feel like you have failed but when there is a loss of life, it is not far off.

"I am not a football fan, so the attachment to football is not there for me. I understood everything Vichai did for the city and the club and it is sad he is not with us any more. But we are very quick to think of one person and not the other four who were on board. They had families as well.

"It is just a sad situation. We have been to incidents time and time again since. You can't carry that burden around with you. You just can't. There is not enough room for it."

Another member of the crew, Russ, was not working that night. He had been to the game though. And he could see the effect the event had on his mates when he returned for duty.

"You could visibly see it had been hard work; seeing it on the news all the time, the profile of it, the exposure to it all. It had stirred emotions in a lot of people. The member of our team who was supposed to be leaving that night came back for a little bit to spend time with the watch, because he needed to be around everyone else who had experienced the same thing.

"The service were very good at getting in touch and telling us there were things available if we wanted them. But there is nothing better than talking among yourselves."

The group decided to bring some kind of closure to their experience by doing the Leicester Half Marathon earlier this month.

Their plans had to be altered when the race was cancelled because of poor weather. With money pledged for the Vichai Foundation and the Firefighters Charity, Leicester City came to their aid by allowing them to run round the pitch - 63 times - to fulfil their promise.

"This time last year I was training for the London Marathon," said Tennant.

"It is weird, but it is something that sticks in my mind. The training was horrible. I did some really long runs, really boring. This particular time, I finished late at night and I knew Leicester had been playing. I was catching my breath at the end of the run and the helicopter came over. You can see the lights, you know it is a helicopter and you think 'I know who that is'.

"That was the last time I heard it.

"I guess that is why it just feels personal. It was a completely different night."

The political fallout for Rep. Katie Hill, D-Calif., escalated on Thursday as more compromising photos of the freshman lawmaker surfaced amid a House Ethics Committee inquiry into her behavior.

The Daily Mail on Thursday published one photo of what appeared to be a fully nude Hill holding a bong, and another of her kissing a staff worker on her congressional campaign, who was reportedly involved in a “throuple” relationship with Hill and Hill’s husband, Kenny Heslep.

The new photos emerged shortly after the conservative website RedState.org posted screenshots of several text messages between Hill and the staffer detailing the reported end of their three-person relationship earlier this year and reported on intimate pictures including a nude photo of Hill brushing the staffer’s hair.

According to the texts that were shown, Hill wanted to focus on her work and suggested that "political risk" was a factor.

Fox News has not verified the authenticity of the photos.
Hill, an openly bisexual congresswoman and the vice chairwoman of the powerful House Oversight Committee, admitted Wednesday she had an "inappropriate" relationship with a female campaign staffer.

The California Democrat did not respond to Fox News’ request for comment. But in a letter sent to constituents on Wednesday and obtained by Fox News, Hill acknowledged that in the final years of what she called an "abusive marriage," she began a relationship with the unnamed campaign staffer.

"I know that even a consensual relationship with a subordinate is inappropriate, but I still allowed it to happen despite my better judgment," Hill wrote. "For that I apologize. I wish nothing but the best for her and hope everyone respects her privacy in this difficult time."

Heslep filed for divorce from Hill earlier this year.

"I am going through a divorce from an abusive husband who seems determined to try to humiliate me," Hill said in her statement. "I am disgusted that my opponents would seek to exploit such a private matter for political gain. This coordinated effort to try to destroy me and the people close to me is despicable and will not succeed. I, like many women who have faced attacks like this before, am stronger than those who want me to be afraid."

RedState also reported last week that Hill had an extramarital affair with Graham Kelly, her legislative director and former campaign finance director, for at least a year. Heslep was said to have shared his own screenshot of a text exchange he had with a friend who had heard about the affair; it was later deleted from his Facebook account.

The reported affair with a congressional staffer prompted the House Ethics Committee investigation.

According to RedState, the alleged affair was why Heslep filed for divorce. Hill has denied the affair with Kelly.

Neither Heslep nor Kelly could be reached for comment.

"The truth is, distributing intimate photos with the intent to publish them is a crime, and the perpetrator should be punished to the full extent of the law," she has said. "I am saddened that the deeply personal matter of my divorce has been brought into public view, even the false allegations of a relationship with my congressional staffer, which I have publicly denied, and I am fully and proactively cooperating with the Ethics Committee."

RedState also published a series of purported late-night texts in which Heslep called into question Hill’s drinking. Other texts showed the female staffer involved in the "throuple" expressing concerns about Hill's drinking.

The Republican challengers for Hill's congressional seat have pounced on the controversy as they sought to win back one of the many districts the Democrats took in the 2018 midterm elections.

"No member of Congress should ever engage in a relationship with a staffer. Ever. Period,” Mike Garcia, a Republican challenging Hill in 2020, said in a statement. "In the Navy, I took an oath of office and it would’ve been grounds for dishonorable discharge if a member of the military ever conducted themselves in this way. Katie Hill also took an oath, and we need full transparency and accountability."

Angela Underwood-Jacobs, a Republican council member in Lancaster, Calif., who also has vied for Hill's seat, went further by telling Fox News she should resign over the controversy.

"She needs to do the right thing and step down," Underwood-Jacobs said. "She was entrusted to do a job and I can't see how she is getting any work done when she’s dealing with all this."

Another GOP candidate, Mark Cripe, said in a statement that “my primary concern is that these issues are distracting her from the ability to professionally focus on giving the best, most positive efforts to represent district 25.”

George Papadopoulos, the former foreign policy adviser for President Trump who served 12 days in federal prison for lying to federal investigators, also weighed in on Hill's controversy. Papadopoulos, who recently moved to California with his wife, has stirred speculation that he might challenge Hill for her seat in 2020.

"Certain districts are not being governed and represented properly, including the 25th Congressional District which Katie Hill is representing at the moment," Papadopoulos told Fox News. "I have been reached out to by leaders who are helping other Republicans run in the state and they think I have a great shot. Running for Congress and winning is definitely a goal of mine."

He added, "Timing is everything, though, and will be making a final decision next week."

Amid widespread GOP criticism of Hill, the lawmaker has received support from one surprising source.

Republican Rep. Matt Gaetz of Florida on Thursday tweeted in her defense, calling her "focused and thoughtful."

"This is just absurd," Gaetz tweeted. "The only person who seems to have a gripe is @RepKatieHill's soon-to-be ex. Who among us would look perfect if every ex leaked every photo/text? Katie isn’t being investigated by Ethics or maligned because she hurt anyone - it is because she is different."
The Trump administration has attempted to block a key witness from testifying in the impeachment inquiry by claiming “constitutional immunity.” And that witness — former deputy national security adviser Charles Kupperman — has asked a judge to rule whether his testimony can proceed as planned.

Kupperman made the request in a lawsuit filed Friday; he was set to testify before lawmakers on Monday, after being subpoenaed. The House Democrats leading the impeachment inquiry have been calling key witnesses related to President Donald Trump’s dealings with Ukraine at at a rapid clip, and the Trump administration has tried — and largely failed — to derail these testimonies.

The administration had not previously invoked constitutional immunity, and the decision in Kupperman’s lawsuit could be precedent-setting at a moment in which officials are increasingly caught between directives from the executive and legislative branches that at are, as Kupperman’s lawyer said in a statement, “competing and irreconcilable.”

“Plaintiff obviously cannot satisfy the competing demands of both the legislative and executive branches, and he is aware of no controlling judicial authority definitively establishing which branch’s command should prevail,” the suit reads.

The White House has said it will not cooperate with the impeachment inquiry. Kupperman has said White House lawyers told him not to comply with the subpoena. Thus far, these executive branch efforts to slow the pace of investigation have been unsuccessful; one session was postponed after the US ambassador to the EU hesitated to come before Congress under pressure from the president. That ambassador eventually testified; other officials have ignored the White House’s wishes.

Kupperman’s suit could bring new clarity to the question of what government officials should do when given competing instructions from Congress and the White House. Should the judge rule Kupperman is protected by constitutional immunity, the Trump administration would have a powerful new way to shield officials from congressional subpoenas; however, should the opposite ruling be handed down, lawmakers could become more forceful in compelling testimony and could have more supporting evidence for the argument Trump is trying to obstruct Congress.

The claim of constitutional immunity itself goes a step beyond that of “executive privilege,” a concept Trump has used in previous attempts to bar some high-ranking officials from giving testimony. Executive privilege can excuse people from discussing specific occurrences within the White House. But constitutional immunity can excuse those same people from having to testify at all.

The lawsuit comes at a critical time for the impeachment inquiry. Many witnesses have already appeared before Congress, and have painted a fuller picture of Trump’s desire to have Ukraine investigate the family of former Vice President Joe Biden. But in the days to come, lawmakers hope to interview a number of officials who they believe can provide even more information. Trump, on the other hand, could use a win following a Friday decision in Washington, DC district court that rejected the Republican argument that the impeachment inquiry is invalid because the House has yet to issue a formal resolution about it.

Not only was the inquiry ruled valid, but Judge Beryl Howell ordered the administration to provide the House Judiciary Committee material from the Mueller report investigation that had previously been kept secret.
Despite the White House’s attempts to stop its employees from participating in the inquiry, depositions continue apace. Proceedings were briefly postponed this week to mark the passing of Rep. Elijah Cummings (D-MD), who had been chair of the House Oversight Committee. They resumed on Saturday with Philip Reeker, acting assistant secretary of state for European and Eurasian affairs, who will testify behind closed doors.

Next week, Lt. Col. Alexander Vindman, director for European affairs at the National Security Council, and Kathryn Wheelbarger, acting assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs, are both expected to appear.

And Tim Morrison, senior director for Europe and Russia at the National Security Council, is scheduled to discuss who may have been listening in on the July 25 call between Trump and Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy that led to the whistleblower complaint that led to the impeachment inquiry.

Morrison was referred to several times during explosive testimony last week by Bill Taylor, the acting US ambassador to Ukraine, who suggested that Trump attempted to engage in a quid pro quo exchange of military aid for a foreign investigation into the affairs of the Biden family.

As Vox’s Alex Ward wrote, it was the most damning account to date on whether Trump attempted to withhold $391 million in military aid to Ukraine for his own political and personal gain:

The ambassador reportedly said that Trump made the aid contingent on the new Ukrainian government publicly announcing it would reopen an anti-corruption probe into Burisma, a Ukrainian gas company that Hunter Biden, Joe’s son, once sat on the board of.

Taylor said Trump also wanted Kyiv to investigate a long-debunked 2016 election conspiracy theory: that a Democratic National Committee server was whisked away to Ukraine to hide the fact that the country interfered in that vote, not Russia.

It’s not out of the ordinary for the US to dangle incentives to get what it wants from another country. The problem, as Taylor’s testimony makes clear, is that Trump used his power to get Ukraine to help his reelection efforts by hurting his political rival.

The procession of testimonies from a range of current and former officials could soon include John Bolton, who served as national security adviser during Trump’s phone call with Zelenskiy. Bolton was relieved of his duties last month. Now a private citizen, Bolton would not be constrained by the White House’s efforts to limit witness testimony.

And as Vox’s Andrew Prokop wrote this week, “Given his high-level White House access, his unimpeachable Republican credentials, and his falling-out with Trump, Bolton’s testimony could be explosive.”

Millions of Californians face having their power cut as firefighters continue to battle a surge in wildfires in the state.

Pacific Gas & Electric (PG&E) said it might have to turn off power in 36 counties amid forecasts of a "historic wind event", which it said could damage facilities and cause new fires.

The warning came as wildfires forced some 50,000 people from their homes.

A state of emergency has been declared in Los Angeles and Sonoma counties.

California's fire department says the state is experiencing "critical fire weather".

Report
Commenting on the latest fire, Governor Gavin Newsom said on Friday that PG&E "simply did not do their job". He condemned "years and years of greed, years and years of mismanagement in the utilities".

What is PG&E telling Californians?
PG&E on Friday warned about 850,000 customers - whose households are estimated to contain about 2 million people - that they "may be impacted" by a power cut between Saturday evening and midday on Monday, citing forecasts of potential extreme weather.

"PG&E will need to turn off power for safety several hours before the potentially damaging winds arrive," the company said in a statement.

"The weather event could be the most powerful in California in decades."

Why do Santa Ana winds make wildfires worse?
California fires 'can now happen any year'
Volunteers fighting fires in California's 'forgotten canyon'
The company said high winds "pose a higher risk of damage and sparks on the electric system and rapid wildfire spread", adding that vegetation was especially vulnerable to fire because it had been dried out by previous winds.

The warning from PG&E came as the company faced scrutiny over its possible role in the fires.

Image caption
PG&E says high winds could damage its infrastructure, potentially leading to more fires
The company says the Kincade Fire that started in northern California on Wednesday began seven minutes after a nearby power line was damaged.

It has not yet confirmed whether the power glitch sparked the Kincade Fire.

The deadliest wildfire in the state's history - which killed 85 people in northern California in 2018 - was caused by PG&E power lines.

'Seconds to get out'
BBC correspondent Peter Bowes lives in the Santa Clarita area north of Los Angeles, where the Tick Fire has been raging.

"My partner was in the house and had just seconds to get out, to pick up the dog, throw the dog in the car - gently - just get out. It happened that quickly and all our neighbours did exactly the same thing," he said.

He later tweeted photos of the devastation.

Report
Where are the major fires?
The Kincade Fire, which started on Wednesday, has burned through 21,900 acres (8,800 hectares) of land in Sonoma County - one of California's best-known wine regions.

More than 1,300 firefighters are tackling the blaze, which remains uncontained.

There are a number of other major fires, including:

The Tick Fire in Los Angeles County has burned at least 4,300 acres in the Santa Clarita region
The Old Water Fire in San Bernardino County has burned 95 acres, shutting off a major highway
The Cabrillo Fire in San Mateo County, south of the town of Pescadero, has burnt about 95 acres
The Sawday Fire in San Diego County, which began on Friday, has burned 97 acres, some 40 miles northeast of San Diego
The Saddle Ridge Fire in Los Angeles County has burned more than 8,700 acres over the last 14 days
The Muir Fire in Marin County has burned 143 acres
The Mines Fire in Alameda County has burned some 86 acres since Thursday night
The Miller Fire in San Diego County has burned about 91 acres since Friday afternoon
Fires have also broken out across the border in Mexico's Baja California state, with blazes near the border town of Tecate, south-west of Tijuana, and north-west of the city of Ensenada on the Pacific coast.

Authorities said three people had died and more than 1,000 had been evacuated from their homes.

What's caused the wildfires?
According to a report filed to the California Public Utilities Commission on Thursday, a "broken jumper" - which connects power lines to towers - was discovered at 21:20 local time on Wednesday.

The fire began at 21:27, according to the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection.

The news sent share prices of PG&E tumbling on Friday, as investors feared the company might be held responsible for the Kincade Fire.

The company is already seeking bankruptcy protection as it faces lawsuits over last year's deadly Camp Fire. It was found to have been sparked by ageing equipment owned by PG&E.

It spawned billions of dollars in liability claims against the company.

High winds appear to have spread the fires - gusts of up to 70mph (112km/h) have swept much of the state.

California is affected by Santa Ana winds, which are known for being dry and gusty, exacerbating wildfires.

Who is affected?
On Thursday morning, PG&E shut off power in 15 California counties to prevent accidental fires, affecting about 180,000 homes.

Power was restored to most customers on Thursday night. But officials warn of more outages over the weekend in regions experiencing high winds and dry heat.

Schools in the Los Angeles Unified School District remained closed on Friday because of air quality and safety concerns.

If you had invested in a property in San Francisco five years ago and cashed out in 2019, you would have made a 50% profit, never mind the rental income. But if you had bought a year ago and sold today you would have made exactly zero.

The California boom is over and investors need to switch to Plan B, which is the answer to the Jeopardy question: How do you deal with a market that at best will be moving sideways, but could also drop 20%?

The end of the boom in California also poses troubling questions for investments elsewhere in the country. Will other tech economies follow suit? What are the prospects for booming markets in Arizona, Nevada, Utah, Texas and Florida? And will panic selling drive down prices everywhere, as it did in 2008, pushing an already weakened national economy into recession?

Is it just the Bay Area?

No, Southern California is right behind. Home prices in the LA basin were up 3% in the past year, but 9% the year before and the trend is clear. The LA economy is not as tightly tied to the tech sector but it has been weak, with job creation on the low side, even as home prices in the past five years surged 40%.

PROMOTED
Throughout much of California prices are now 20% to 30% higher than the 'income' price—the price that relates to local income—which always leads to a market correction.

Blame it on the tech economy?

Boom and bust cycles get started when the demand for real estate outstrips the supply, which can easily happen when some people suddenly have a lot more money. We've seen it in energy markets in Texas, in financial markets in the Northeast, and recently in shale-oil towns in the middle of nowhere. We've even seen it before in California, with the dot.coms of the late 1990s.

And now we're seeing it in the Bay Area, in Seattle, Denver, Boise, Austin, Provo, even in Raleigh and Atlanta, where tech is less important.

The cycle is the same. People with new money bid up real estate until builders produce more or everyone who wants it has enough. Then nobody is left to pay the astronomical asking prices and these have to come down.

What about the other tech markets?

Seattle is in pretty much the same situation as San Francisco, as home prices were up just 1% in the past 12 months. But other markets are still in decent shape. Prices were up 5% in Denver, 6% in Austin, 9% in Provo, and 12% in Boise as tech expands in markets with lower costs. The average home price is over $1 million in San Francisco, a $500,000 in Seattle, but only $300,000 in Boise and Provo.

I do expect these other tech markets to follow the same path, however, especially Denver, Boise and Austin, which are over-priced about 30% right now.

And other boom markets?

Phoenix, Portland, Miami and the rest of South Florida, Tampa, Houston, Charleston, and Salt Lake City are over-priced, and Las Vegas will join them pretty soon. Prices have slowed only mildly in these markets and the local economies remain strong.

But this is where the national economy comes into play. No local real estate market can prosper long if the national economy slows, and that's what we're seeing as the rate at which new jobs are being created has fallen from 2% at the beginning of the year to 1.5% right now. Any lower and the economy is headed for trouble.

If that happens, the real estate market will make things worse, as construction stops, home buying stops, and high housing costs push consumers to spend less on other things.

What's the likely outcome?

In the 2008 recession we saw home prices drop in almost every local market in the U.S., as much as 50%. That won't happen this time even if we're hit with a full recession. Only a few markets, like Miami, where the boom has been driven by foreign investors, are heavily over-priced.

More likely is that the economy eases towards recession and that home prices in many of the boom markets come to a soft landing—they drop a bit but they mainly go sideways.

That's partly because the tech boom is not just a temporary surge in wealth. It's created large numbers of jobs for people who made (and still make) good bucks. It’s not just Google programmers with $200,000 salaries but also bankers, lawyers, stock brokers, office landlords, security companies, caterers, the whole eco-system of an industry that will probably change radically in the next few years but will not be going away.

In markets that are not over-priced you'll see a tremor, but no wholesale selling because this time there's no systematic distortion (like sub-prime mortgages) that affects real estate supply and demand everywhere.

What can investors do?

Mainly, don't buy now in the markets that are over-priced. Consider selling now in the boom markets that are still in good shape. Don't raise your rents in expensive markets, you'll have poor luck finding higher-paying tenants when the economy slows. Elsewhere just sit tight and, unless you're over-extended, don't worry too much; even in a recession most markets will do just fine. Real estate, and especially rentals, will continue to be a good investment.

Mortgage rates fell yet again on a weekly basis thanks to the declining yield on Treasury notes.

The 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 3.57% during the week ending Oct. 10, down 8 basis points from the previous week, Freddie Mac reported Thursday. This is a stark change from a year ago when the 30-year fixed-rate mortgage averaged 4.90%

The 15-year fixed-rate mortgage dipped 9 basis points to an average of 3.05%, according to Freddie Mac. The 5/1 adjustable-rate mortgage averaged 3.35%, down 3 basis points from a week ago.

Mortgage rates roughly track the direction of the 10-year Treasury note the yield on which has fallen by more than 10 basis points over the last month and roughly 100 basis points throughout 2019.

Get Pre-Approved

Find a lender who can offer competitive mortgage rates and help you with pre-approval.
Enter the ZIP code where you plan to buy a home
94720
Falling mortgage rates have yet again caused a resurgence in refinancing activity. The most recent mortgage application data from the Mortgage Bankers Association showed that refinance activity was 163% higher than a year ago. The same trend has not occurred when it comes to loans used to buy a home. Purchase loan volume was only up 10% from a year ago, the Mortgage Bankers Association reported.

“Despite low rates, the cloudier economic outlook and ongoing market uncertainty may be keeping some potential home buyers away from the market this fall,” said Joel Kan, associate vice president of economic and industry forecasting at the Mortgage Bankers Association, said in the trade organization’s report.

Some home buyers appear to be responding more to low mortgage rates than others, however, according to Freddie Mac. A staggering 46% of the loans Freddie Mac has purchased in 2019 were made to first-time buyers, which represents a two-decade high.

Ok, so how do I get my dream home?

The numbers: An index of pending home sales increased 1.6% in August, following July’s decline, the National Association of Realtors reported Thursday. Compared with a year ago, contract signings were up 2.5%.

The index captures transactions where a contract has been signed, but the home sale has not yet closed.

What happened: This is only the third month this year in which contract signings have risen, and pending home sales increased across all regions nationwide.

The highest gain occurred in the West, where the pending home sales index rose 3.1% from July. Contract signings also increased 0.7% in the Northeast, 0.6% in the Midwest and 1.4% in the South.

“The notable sales slump in the West region over recent years appears to be over,” Lawrence Yun, chief economist for the National Association of Realtors, said in the report. “Rising demand will reaccelerate home price appreciation in the absence of more supply.”

Big picture: The capping of state and local tax deductions significantly disrupted housing markets in high-tax parts of the country. As people have acclimated to the new normal where taxes are concerned, this headwind has diminished.

More recently, the decline in mortgage rates has begun to lift sales activity nationally. At first the lower interest rates appeared to be merely driving more interest in mortgage refinancing. However, August saw upticks in existing and new home sales and in homebuilding activity.

What they’re saying? “The surge in mortgage applications in both August and September points to new cycle highs for sales around the turn of the year,” Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics, wrote in a research note. “Sales could well dip a bit over the next month or two, having overshot relative to mortgage applications for the past three months, but the trend is rising.”

Market reaction: The Dow Jones Industrial Average and the S&P 500 moved lower in morning trades, as investors examined the whistleblower complaint released Thursday regarding President Trump’s interactions with the president of Ukraine.

The 10-year Treasury note’s yield also dropped Thursday on the heels of the latest U.S. GDP figures, which indicated that slower economic growth could persist.

The numbers: Sales of newly-constructed homes in the U.S. increased 7.1% on a monthly basis in August to a seasonally-adjusted annual rate of 713,000, the government reported Wednesday.

That’s up from a revised rate of 666,000 in July, and is just shy of the 12-year high set in June. Compared with August 2018, new-home sales were up 18%.

Because of the small sample size used to produce the new-home sales figures, the report is fairly volatile and prone to large revisions. For instance, the pace of new-home sales in June was later revised to 729,000 after an initial reading of 646,000.

Despite the erratic nature of the new-home sales figures, the overall trend suggests that sales activity is indeed rising in 2019. The average rate so far this year is 671,000, High Frequency Economics chief economist Jim O’Sullivan said, which is up from the pace of 615,000 for all of 2018.

What happened: Home sales did not increase across all the major regions throughout the United States. While home sales activity revved up in the South and the West, it slowed in the Northeast and Midwest.

At the end of August, the government estimated there was a 5.5-month supply of homes available for sale, slightly below the six-month threshold that represents a balanced market. 

In December, the supply of homes peaked around seven months. 

The decline since then could push new-home prices higher and encourage builders to ramp up construction activity, Pantheon Macroeconomics chief economist Ian Shepherdson said.

As sales activity has picked up, home prices have resumed their upward climb. The median price of a new home increased to $328,400 in August from $312,800 the month prior.

Big picture: This summer’s decline in mortgage rates continued to be the gift that keeps on giving. Low mortgage rates were already shown to have sparked a major uptick in home-building activity in August, and sales of new homes naturally followed. “U.S. housing market activity is responding positively to lower rates, another reason why the U.S. economy doesn’t need the extent of interest rate cuts that are priced into financial markets currently,” said Katherine Judge, an economist at CIBC Capital Markets.

Another factor that’s driving sales of newly-built homes is the overall tight supply of homes for sale. “Home buyers are increasingly looking to newly constructed homes with the available options for existing homes so few,” said Nationwide senior economist Ben Ayers.

Nevertheless, global economic concerns and the trade war with China remain as potential headwinds for the housing market. And if recessionary fears come true, a downturn in hiring could ding consumer confidence and give would-be buyers pause.

What they are saying: “Mortgage applications for purchase pulled back in August from cycle highs (but have improved in September), as concerns about the trade war and economy appeared to overshadow cheaper borrowing costs,” Sal Guatieri, senior economist at BMO Capital Markets, wrote in a research note ahead of Wednesday’s data release.

Market reaction: The Dow Jones Industrial Average and S&P 500 dropped in Wednesday trades as markets were rattled by Democratic House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s announcement of a formal impeachment inquiry of President Trump. 

The 10-year Treasury note’s yield, meanwhile, initially rose on the news.

Shares of home-building firms, including PulteGroup, D.R. Horton, and Lennar Corp. were up slightly in morning trading.

WASHINGTON—Sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose in August, adding to recent modest signs of recovery in the housing market.

Existing-home sales rose 1.3% in August from the previous month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 5.49 million, the National Association of Realtors said Thursday. That was the strongest pace of sales since March of last year. Economists surveyed by The Wall Street Journal expected sales to fall 1.1% last month.

Over the past year, sales in August were up 2.6%, the second month of growth following 16 straight months of year-over-year declines.

“Just perhaps we may have turned a corner for good in terms of home sales, which had been underperforming in relation to jobs, mortgage rates and other factors,” said Lawrence Yun, the trade group’s chief economist.

July’s sales were unrevised at a 5.42 million annual rate.

Thursday’s data suggests a recovery could be under way in the housing market, which has struggled for more than a year despite low mortgage rates and a strong labor market.

Last week, 30-year fixed mortgage rates averaged 3.56%, down from close to 5% in November, according to Freddie Mac.

“Having the mortgage rate low for several consecutive months is enticing buyers back into the market,” Mr. Yun said.

That may also be encouraging builders. New-home construction climbed 12.3% in August from the previous month, rising to the highest level in a dozen years, the Commerce Department said Wednesday.

A shortage of homes for sale has been pushing up prices and making it difficult for new buyers to get a foothold, Mr. Yun said. 

The median sales price in August was $278,200, up 4.7% from a year ago. 

That was the 90th consecutive month of year-over-year price increases. 

There was a 4.1-month supply of homes on the market at the end of August at the current sales pace.

Purchases of previously owned homes account for most of U.S. homebuying. 

News Corp, owner of The Wall Street Journal, also operates Realtor.com under license from the National Association of Realtors.

(CNN) -- Can a movie actually convince you to support torture? Can a movie really persuade you that "fracking" -- a process used to drill for natural gas -- is a danger to the environment? Can a movie truly cause you to view certain minority groups in a negative light?

Some scoff at the notion that movies do anything more than entertain. They are wrong. Sure, it's unlikely that one movie alone will change your views on issues of magnitude. But a movie (or TV show) can begin your "education" or "miseducation" on a topic. And for those already agreeing with the film's thesis, it can further entrench your views.

Anyone who doubts the potential influence that movies can have on public opinion need to look no further than two films that are causing an uproar even before they have opened nationwide. They present hot button issues that manage to fire up people from the left and right.

The first, "Zero Dark Thirty," is about the pursuit and killing of Osama bin Laden, which features scenes of torture. The second, "Promised Land," stars Matt Damon and explores how the use of fracking to drill for natural gas can pose health and environmental dangers.

Critics of "Zero Dark Thirty" fear that audiences will accept as true the film's story line that torture was effective in eliciting information to locate bin Laden. They are rightfully concerned that the film will sway some to become more receptive or even supportive of the idea of torturing prisoners.

Peter Bergen: Did torture really net bin Laden?

Opposition to the film escalated last week as three senior U.S. senators -- John McCain, Carl Levin and Dianne Feinstein -- sent a letter to the film's distributor, Sony Pictures, characterizing the film's use of torture as "grossly inaccurate and misleading." The senators bluntly informed Sony Pictures that it has "an obligation to state that the role of torture in the hunt for Osama bin Laden is not based on the facts, but rather part of the film's fictional narrative."

The hostility toward "Promised Land" shows us that it's not just politicians who complain about movie messages. Big business -- namely, the gas industry -- is aggressively objecting to the allegation in "Promised Land" that fracking poses environmental and health risks.

How concerned is the gas industry?

It has set up a rapid response team to counter publicity for the film by using two Washington-based groups that lobby for gas and oil companies: the Independent Petroleum Association of America and Energy in Depth. These groups have scrutinized appearances by the films stars on talk shows, questioned who the financiers of the film are, published parts of the script and mocked the film on social media.

Energy in Depth went as far as to "fact check" a recent appearance by the film's co-star and co-writer, John Krasinski, on "Late Night With David Letterman." Within hours of Krasinski's appearance, Energy in Depth posted a blog on its website pointing out what it perceived as factual errors made by Krasinski about fracking.

Regardless of whether "Zero Dark Thirty" and "Promised Land" intended to promote any message, people who watch them will be "educated" in some way on torture and fracking -- even if very subtly.

This is the same reason that minority groups continue to object to being represented in a negative light in movies and TV. They understand that accurate representations matter because studies have shown that biases can form based on stereotypes or inaccurate representations. (Being of Italian and Arab descent, I'm acutely aware of this issue as my respective heritages have been represented by a parade of mobsters and terrorists.)

What's Hollywood's role in all of this? The same as it has always been -- to make money.

In fact, there's no doubt that the studios behind these movies are overjoyed at the controversy that has erupted and the resulting free press. Indeed, the response of Sony Pictures to the uproar over "Zero Dark Thirty" tells you about what they really hope we will all do: "We encourage people to see the film before characterizing it."

So go ahead, enjoy these films and ones like them that are based on actual events or current hot issues. But while you are watching them, be aware you might be getting more than the price of ticket. You might also be getting a (mis)education.

The opinions expressed in this commentary are solely those of Dean Obeidallah.

March 14 is my favorite day to be a nerd.

Across the country, math geeks in museums, schools, private groups and elsewhere gather to celebrate the number pi, approximately 3.14. That's why March 14 -- 3-14 -- is Pi Day. What's more, Albert Einstein was born on this day.

A quick refresher: Pi is defined as the distance around a perfect circle, or the circumference, divided by the distance across it, or the diameter. It is also involved in calculating the area of a circle, the volume of a sphere, and many other mathematical formulas you might need in the sciences.

Throughout history, people have been captivated by this number because there is no way to calculate it exactly by a simple division on your calculator. What's more, its digits go on infinitely, without any pattern in the numbers. 3.1415926535897932 ... etc. Even that many digits are more than most people would need for everyday use, but some folks have been inspired to memorize thousands of digits of pi, or even use the digits to create poetry or music.

On Pi Day, one number 'reeks of mystery'

Math may be scary, but pi is not -- as evidenced by the widespread revelry on Pi Day. One might even say -- gasp! -- it's cool to like pi these days. Even the House of Representatives supported the designation of March 14 as National Pi Day in 2009.

In countries where the day is written before the month, Friday is 14-3, which looks less like pi. "And so Pi Day is an acquired taste," mathematician Jonathan Borwein, at the University of Newcastle in Australia, said in an e-mail.

Conveniently, "pi" sounds like "pie," and pies are round. You could celebrate Pi Day in a casual way by grabbing a slice of pastry, or pizza. If you're in enrolled in school, your math class or math department might be doing something special already.

But if you happen to live in a particularly pi-happy place, you might be able to take part in some larger-scale, pi-inspired activities.

Where Pi Day began

If you want to go where the day is said to be "invented," look no further than San Francisco's Exploratorium. Larry Shaw, who worked in the electronics group at the museum, began the tradition in 1988. Last year was Pi Day's 25th anniversary there.

Pi Day began as a small gathering with mostly museum staff. Now it's a public pi extravaganza featuring a "Pi procession," whose attendees get a number -- 0 to 9 -- and line up in the order of pi's digits: 3.14159265 ... you get the idea.

The parade ends at the "pi shrine" -- a pi symbol with digits spiraling around it embedded in the sidewalk, which was unveiled last year.

For those who can't attend in person, the Exploratorium has a Second Life Pi Day event that includes "irrational exhibits, fireworks, cheerleaders, music, and dancing." The museum also lists a bunch of educational activities to teach about the concept of pi.

On Pi Day, is 'pi' under attack?

Where Einstein lived

On the opposite coast, the leafy university town where Albert Einstein spent the last 22 years of his life is showing community-wide exuberance for pi.

Princeton, New Jersey, kicks off Pi Day weekend on Thursday night with a reading by physicist Charles Adler, then heads into a full day of activities on Friday, including a walking tour of Einstein's neighborhood and a pizza pie-making contest.

The pie-eating contest takes place at McCaffrey's supermarket, while an Einstein look-alike competition will match mustaches and wild gray hair at the Princeton Public Library.

Pi fans who have been spending the last year memorizing digits can show off and compete at the library, where the winner among 7- to 13-year-olds can take home a cool pi-hundred (That is, $314.15). The Historical Society of Princeton will have an Einstein birthday party. Tetsuya Miyamoto, inventor of the KENKEN puzzle, will speak at the library as well.

Here are 10,000 digits of pi for you to memorize

The "brainiac town" residents "love this event because it's a way for them to celebrate how quirky they are," said Mimi Omiecinski, owner of the Princeton Tour Company, who started Princeton Pi Day in 2009. "A lot of them get super into it." Last year about 9,000 people participated, she said.

Along with her fascination with Albert Einstein, Omiecinski was inspired to launch a town-wide Pi Day after she heard that the Princeton University mathematics department celebrates March 14 with pie-eating and pi-reciting (As a Princeton student, I got second place for most digits in 2005 and 2006).

Even more pi

Chicago is getting into the pi business too. Lots of restaurants and bakeries are offering Pi Day specials. The Illinois Science Council and Fleet Feet Sports are hosting a 3.14-mile walk/run Friday night, with discounts for anyone named Albert, Alberta or Albertina. Philly.com highlights two options for satisfying your pie cravings in the City of Brotherly Love.

Bostonians can head to Massachusetts Institute of Technology at Pi Time (3:14 p.m.) for pi-themed activities such as "Throw Pie at Your Best Friend on High-Speed Camera."

The Museum of Science in Boston has educational Pi Day events, and the Seattle Children's Museum will celebrate too.

Even the Salvador Dali Museum in St. Petersburg, Florida, will celebrate the day, as "Dali loved the irrational numbers Pi and Phi, often using them and other mathematical principles in his art," according to the museum. If you live in the area, check out their schedule of math-inspired films and tours throughout the day.

There are plenty of online resources too, such as piday.org.

Outside of the physical classroom, Pi Day will be celebrated online through Google's virtual classroom project. David Blatner, author of the comprehensive book "The Joy of Pi," is hosting a Pi Day competition in which students from three classrooms will square off to see who can recite the most digits of pi from memory.

How did Pi Day become such a big thing?

Blatner says that Pi Day has become a hit for the same reason the new "Cosmos" TV show is getting so much attention.

"People all around the world are hungry to make science and math fun and interesting," he said in an e-mail. "We know math and science is important, we know that it's fascinating, but we often don't know how to make it fun and interesting. Pi Day gives us a great excuse to throw away our fear of math and say 'Hey, it IS kind of neat!' "

If you agree, just wait until 3/14/15 -- or as one popular Facebook group calls it, "The Only Pi Day of Our Lives."

That's because pi to four digits after the decimal is 3.1415, and we're unlikely to survive until 2115 to see that second instance of pi perfection.

So get ready next year to take a picture of your digital clock on 3/14/15 at 9:26:53 a.m. That'll be worth more than a thousand digits.

Follow Elizabeth Landau on Twitter at @lizlandau

How do you celebrate Pi Day? Tell us in the comments.

Beijing (CNN) -- Families of Chinese passengers on board missing Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 have engaged in a rare late-night act of civil disobedience in this tightly-controlled city.

After unsuccessfully demanding a meeting with the Malaysian ambassador at their hotel for more than eight hours, angry relatives pushed past police officers who tried to stop them from making a midnight march across the Chinese capital. Their destination: the Malaysian Embassy.

"The ambassador kept saying he would come but he never showed," an elderly man told CNN as he and scores of others walked quietly through Beijing's streets. As has been the practice of many other Chinese passengers' next of kin, the man asked not to publish his name.

"They're lying. They're lying to us," the man repeated. "And now we're going to the embassy. If they won't come to us, we'll go to them."

The surreal late-night procession was followed closely by police squad cars.

Around midnight, more than one hundred relatives staged a pre-dawn sit-in outside the embassy gates.

Though vastly out-numbered by Chinese security forces, the family members continued their stubborn vigil throughout the morning. They remained camped out by the diplomatic mission more than 15 hours later.

Periodically, they chanted "Fulfill your commitments! No more delays! No more lies!" Throughout the sit-in, no Malaysian diplomat came out to meet with protesters.

The demonstrators finally dispersed peacefully before sunset on Friday, after camping out by the diplomatic mission for more than 17 hours.

The small gathering departed after delivering a letter of protest to the embassy demanding an explanation for how the prime minister of Malaysia has concluded that the plane ended its flight over the Indian Ocean.

Broken promises

For weeks, distraught next of kin have requested face-to-face meetings with Malaysian officials. They are demanding a briefing on details of the last moments before Flight 370 was believed to have disappeared over the Indian Ocean. In the absence of information from Malaysian authorities, many relatives continue to believe their missing loved ones are still alive.

On several occasions within the last two weeks, Malaysian officials in Beijing and Kuala Lumpur publicly pledged to meet the Chinese families within a matter of 24 hours, but then failed to show up for talks.

"We just want them to stop breaking their promises again and again," said Steven Wang, a spokesman for the families, whose mother went missing when the Boeing 777 disappeared on March 8.

He spoke to CNN in a "journalist's area" located out of sight of the Malaysian Embassy protest. Even at the early hour of 1 a.m. on Friday, Chinese police had cordoned off an area for media around the corner from the sit-in. During the day, security forces continued to prevent journalists from reaching the families.

Public protests are extremely rare in China. The Malaysia Airlines crisis, which has involved the highly emotional disappearance of 153 Chinese nationals who were on board the plane, has put Chinese authorities in an uncomfortable position.

The Chinese government has tolerated -- but stopped far short of endorsing -- the political mobilization of the flight's next of kin. Families have organized committees, issued press releases, and printed t-shirts and hats with the slogan "Pray for MH370." But they have also been largely prevented from organizing public displays outside the windowless hotel conference room that serves as the families' improvised headquarters.

On Friday a spokesperson for the Chinese foreign ministry, Qin Gang, called on the families protesting outside the embassy to "express their appeals in a legal and rational way" while pledging to give them further assistance. He urged the Malaysian authorities to "actively" pursue the investigation.

EXCLUSIVE: Malaysia to release MH370 report, Prime Minister tells CNN

United Nations (CNN) -- The U.N. Security Council approved a resolution Monday to send 4,200 peacekeepers to Abyei, Sudan, as part of a recent agreement between Sudan and Southern Sudan.

The resolution will establish, for six months, the United Nations Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA), comprising "a maximum of 4,200 military personnel, 50 police personnel, and appropriate civilian support," the resolution states.

It passed the council unanimously, 15-0.

In a statement released by the State Department, Secretary Hiliary Clinton commended the swift passage of the resolution.

"Abyei has been a source of regional tension for many years," the statement said. "We urge the parties to reach an immediate cease-fire and to provide aid workers with the unfettered access required to deliver humanitarian assistance to innocent civilians affected by the conflict."

A week ago, the Sudanese government and the Sudan People's Liberation Movement signed an agreement to allow peacekeepers in Abyei, aimed at ending strife that has ravaged much of the country.  The two sides agreed in principle on the need for a third party to monitor the ill-defined border between north and south before the scheduled July 9 independence for the south.

The U.N. peacekeepers will "monitor and verify the redeployment of any Sudan Armed Forces, Sudan People's Liberation Army or its successor" from the Abyei area, among other tasks, the Security Council resolution states.

A bipartisan group of women senators waded into the ongoing drama over the NFL, Ray Rice and domestic violence.

They sent a letter to NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell calling on the football league to institute a "real zero-tolerance policy" in such cases.

The 16 signatories wrote that they were "shocked and disgusted" by the in-elevator video that surfaced of Ray Rice punching his then-fianceé in an elevator, and they pointed to the allegation that the NFL had possession of the video, which became public Monday, when it handed down its original lenient two-game suspension.

"The NFL's current policy sends a terrible message to players, fans and all Americans that even after committing a horrific act of violence, you can quickly be back on the field," the senators wrote.

The NFL recently changed its domestic violence punishment to a minimum suspension of six games for a first offense and a lifetime time ban for a second offense.

"If you violently assault a woman, you shouldn't get a second chance to play football in the NFL," the senators wrote.

Sen. Richard Blumenthal, D-Connecticut, recently told CNN that he would not "rule out" congressional action to force the NFL's hand on domestic abuse.

Key events in the Ray Rice episode

Ex-FBI director to investigate Ray Rice case

WASHINGTON (CNN) -- The White House Wednesday said it was "puzzled" by a former spokesman's memoir in which he accuses the Bush administration of being mired in propaganda and political spin and at times playing loose with the truth.

Former White House spokesman Scott McClellan blasts President Bush and advisers in a new book.

In excerpts from a 341-page book to be released Monday, Scott McClellan writes on the war in Iraq that Bush "and his advisers confused the propaganda campaign with the high level of candor and honesty so fundamentally needed to build and then sustain public support during a time of war."

"[I]n this regard, he was terribly ill-served by his top advisers, especially those involved directly in national security," McClellan wrote.

White House spokeswoman Dana Perino called McClellan's description of his time at the White House "sad."  Read excerpts from the book »

"Scott, we now know, is disgruntled about his experience at the White House," Perino said. "For those of us who fully supported him, before, during and after he was press secretary, we are puzzled. It is sad. This is not the Scott we knew."

McClellan's former White House colleagues had harsher reactions to McClellan's book.

Frances Townsend, former Homeland Security adviser to Bush, said advisers to the president should speak up when they have policy concerns.

"Scott never did that on any of these issues as best I can remember or as best as I know from any of my White House colleagues," said Townsend, now a CNN contributor. "For him to do this now strikes me as self-serving, disingenuous and unprofessional."

Fox News contributor and former White House adviser Karl Rove said on that network Tuesday that the excerpts from the book he's read sound more like they were written by a "left-wing blogger" than his former colleague.

Rove declined to comment to CNN after the Fox News interview.

In a brief phone conversation with CNN Tuesday evening, McClellan made clear that he stands behind the accuracy of his book. McClellan said he cannot give on-the-record quotes yet because of an agreement with his publisher.  Watch further details emerge from McClellan's book »

Another former Bush aide-turned-critic says the reaction to McClellan's book by his former colleagues has a familiar ring to it.

"They're saying some of the exact same things about McClellan they said about me," Richard Clarke, the former White House counterterrorism chief, told CNN.

Clarke left government in 2003. The following year, he accused President Bush of ignoring warnings about the September 11, 2001, attacks on New York and Washington and of using the attacks to push for war with Iraq.

But Clarke gave McClellan little credit for speaking out now.

"I think the difference with McClellan's book is he's now telling us something we all know -- that the war with Iraq was a disastrous war [and] was sold with deception. It's a little different when you say something as I did and a few other people did four or five years ago, when the war was popular and when we were unpopular for saying what we said."

Besides his criticism of how the administration handled the run-up to the Iraq war, McClellan also sharply criticizes the administration on its handling of Hurricane Katrina and its aftermath in the book.

"One of the worst disasters in our nation's history became one of the biggest disasters in Bush's presidency," he wrote. "Katrina and the botched federal response to it would largely come to define Bush's second term."

Early in the book, which CNN obtained late Tuesday, McClellan wrote that he believes he told untruths on Bush's behalf in the case of CIA agent Valerie Plame, whose identity was leaked to the media.

Rove and fellow White House advisers Elliot Abrams and I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby were accused of leaking the name of Plame -- whose husband, former U.S. ambassador Joseph Wilson, had gone public with charges the Bush administration had "twisted" facts to justify the war in Iraq.

Libby was convicted last year of lying to a grand jury and federal agents investigating the leak. Bush commuted his 30-month prison term, calling it excessive. At the time, McClellan called the three "good individuals" and said he spoke to them before telling reporters they were not involved.

"I had allowed myself to be deceived into unknowingly passing along a falsehood," he wrote. "It would ultimately prove fatal to my ability to serve the president effectively."

McClellan wrote he didn't realize what he said was untrue until reporters began digging up details of the case almost two years later.

A former spokesman for Bush when he was governor of Texas, McClellan was named White House press secretary in 2003, replacing Ari Fleischer. McClellan had previously been a deputy press secretary and was the traveling spokesman for the Bush campaign during the 2000 election.

He announced he was resigning in April 2006 at a news conference with Bush.

"One of these days, he and I are going to be rocking in chairs in Texas talking about the good old days of his time as the press secretary," Bush said at that conference. "And I can assure you, I will feel the same way then that I feel now, that I can say to Scott, job well done."

CNN's Ed Henry contributed to this report.

Twitter is on the verge of its initial public offering and everyone's knickers have been in a knot all week over the company's lack of management diversity -- that is, women. As The New York Times put it last week, "The board? All white men. The investors? All men. The executive officers? All men but for the general counsel, Vijaya Gadde, who has had the job for five weeks."

Question: Why is this a problem?

First, there aren't enough women at Twitter or in the tech world because there aren't enough women anywhere.

Some facts: Women make up 6% of chief executives at the leading 100 tech companies, and that has taken years to accomplish. Most startups have all-male boards. In 2012 women held 16.6% of Fortune 500 board seats. Women of color were 3.3% of the total. Fully one-tenth had no women serving on their boards at all. In the past five years, women and minorities have lost ground despite evidence strongly suggesting that gender parity and board diversity have positive effects on profitability.

Twitter had more than a year to prepare for this IPO: Where are the women? The company's immediate response  focused on a "paucity of candidates." The tech industry has a well-documented pipeline problem, one largely the result of gender stereotypes that reach into the educational system.

However, companies regularly draw executives from outside their own industries -- sometimes, yes, even women -- when seeking senior-level and board positions. It enables them to cross-pollinate ideas, diversify their expertise and innovate. For example, Apple has hired Burberry CEO Angela Ahrendts. During her tenure at Burberry, the company doubled its revenues and tripled its share price. Companies redefine "pipeline" every day -- particularly when profits are involved.

The technology sector dresses itself up as progressive when in reality it shows every indication of being, at its core, powerfully retrograde. Despite investing in diversity programs, the management of tech firms is distinctly not diverse, and indeed the industry continues to "dazzle" with incidents in which men gleefully display their not even implicit biases. Last month's Titshare debacle (click and weep), as well as Business Insider's long-overdue firing of CTO Pax Dickinson (who'd for years been churning out such sexist, racist, tweets as "Jesus gets raped by a pack of n****s. It's his own fault for dressing like a whore though") are two recent examples.

Second, sexism is seamlessly coupled with the distribution of capital.

Bryan Goldberg's September launch of Bustle, a "women's centric" website ("world news and politics alongside beauty tips") was a blunt force case in point. After announcing the site with a tone-deaf post, Goldberg was widely mocked for his personal failure to grasp, among other things, how ridiculous his claim to be starting the "first site of its kind" for women was. The real issue isn't Goldberg's cluelessness, but the institutional biases that enabled him to raise $6.5 million when far more able, knowledgeable and experienced women can't.

Companies with at least one woman founder make up only 13% of those funded. Venture capitalists are less likely to invest in startups if there are women involved in their management; investors actively reduce holdings in companies that appoint female directors. These are particular ironies since women-run startups use 40% less capital to launch. These facts don't reflect women lacking in confidence ideas. They illustrate discrimination, whether it is conscious or not.

Third, while we think of Twitter as a tech company, it is a media company and part of a larger environment that does little to correct its failure at diversity. Year after year, studies such as one last week from the Directors Guild of America, as well as reports from Who Makes the News and the Women's Media Center Status on Women in Media document exactly how distorted mainstream media ownership, management and production remain. Only online is the situation improving. But even there the difference is largely gains in women-oriented "pink-collar" content.

How can we separate these facts from ownership? We can't. As reported by the Federal Communications Commission, our media are almost entirely owned and managed by white men.

Lastly, what does this have to do with speech? Everything. Male experiences, interests, expectations and voices, mainly white, inform the way we think, decide how our resources are dispersed and define our norms. The ghettoized status of women and minorities in media and technology, coupled with the lack of venture capital investments, means that our attempts to express ourselves are limited, misrepresented and regularly repackaged to make what we say palatable to a sexist status quo.

And this status quo is entirely uninterested in the idea of women as capable, autonomous leaders who might change norms in unsettling, risky ways. Stating these facts baldly is not an indictment of white men as individuals. It is a description of systemic problems that we refuse to confront with systemic solutions.

The presence of a carefully selected handful of women in tech, regardless of how determined, able and prominently visible they are, has for decades done little to alter the makeup of management and ownership.  Gender diversity at Twitter, as elsewhere, isn't a priority because people make reasonable decisions about what they believe will be profitable and successful: Twitter is looking for experience and expertise within a comfort zone.

"This to me is not a gender issue, it's an innovation issue," Twitter CEO Dick Costolo has explained. Gender issues aren't innovation issues only if your gender is dominant and the norm. This rationale, and others like it, are exactly the kind of "1,000 paper cuts" marginalization that result in fewer women pursuing  tech careers to begin with.

Twitter is one part of a male dominated social structure, economy and culture, all of which rely on cradle-to-grave sexism to be profitable. That's tweetable by the way.

(CNN) -- The man suspected of trying to attack the Dutch royal family by crashing his car near their bus has died, Dutch police said Friday.

A car is pictured after crashing into the crowd waiting for the visit of the royal family in Apeldoorn.

The man, whose name was not released, had been seriously injured in the crash Thursday in the town of Apeldoorn, about 45 miles east of Amsterdam, police said. He died early Friday, police said.

He had been charged with trying to attack the royal family, authorities said. Were you there? Send us your video, images

Police searched the man's house but found no weapons, explosives, "or any other clues that could lead to the involvement of other people," police said.

Five people, as well as the driver, were killed and 12 were wounded in the incident, which happened during the country's annual Queen's Day celebration, police said.

Crowds had lined the streets to see Queen Beatrix and her family ride by in an open-top bus during the Netherlands' annual holiday.  See who the Dutch royal family are »

As the bus moved along, a black hatchback zoomed past it. The crowds were behind barriers off the road, but security officials and journalists, including many cameramen, were in the road as the car went by.

The car crashed into the low metal railing around a column on the side of the road. The vehicle appeared heavily damaged even before the crash, but the reason for that was unclear.

There was no one other than the driver in the car at the time, police spokeswoman Esther Naber said.

Members of the royal family saw the crash and gasped, then quickly sat down as the bus continued driving.

The attack caused outrage in the Netherlands, newspapers Friday widely expressing disbelief and suggesting the monarchy would have to change.

"Queens Day will never be the same," the Trouw newspaper said. "The Netherlands always has been proud of their no nonsense royal family. With this comes a Queen who not only cycles a bike, but also mixes with people without obvious security measurements. Is that still possible now the royal family has been the target of an attack?"

The Algemeen Dagblad newspaper agreed.

""What is going to happen on the 30th of April next year? And will we continue to see the members of the royal family cycling through the canals of Amsterdam or hunting for bargains in the Bijenkorf in The Hague?"

Queen's Day is a national holiday in the Netherlands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Aruba. The tradition started in 1885 and celebrates the birthday of the queen.

Although Queen Beatrix's birthday is January 31, she officially celebrates her birthday April 30, according to the Dutch government.

Queen's Day is known for its free market all over the country, where anybody is allowed to sell things in the streets. Other activities include children's games and musical performances.

The day is marked with the color orange all over the country as a reference to the colors of the royal family, who come from the House of Orange-Nassau.

Emmy Dexel contributed to this report.

(CNN) -- Rory McIlroy is off to a good start at the Scottish Open. He's hoping for a good finish, too, after missing the cut at the Irish Open.

McIlroy shot a course record 7-under-par 64 at Royal Aberdeen on Thursday, and he was actually the second player to better the old mark -- Sweden's Kristoffer Broberg had earlier fired a 65.

McIlroy carded eight birdies and one bogey in windy, chilly conditions.

"Going out this morning in these conditions I thought anything in the 60s would be a good score, so to shoot something better than that is pleasing," McIlroy was quoted as saying by the European Tour's website.

A win Sunday would be the perfect way for former No. 1 McIlroy to prepare for the British Open, which starts next week at Royal Liverpool. He won the last of his two majors in 2012.

"Everything was pretty much on," McIlroy said. "I controlled my ball flight really well, which is the key to me playing well in these conditions and on these courses.

"I've been working the last 10 days on keeping the ball down, hitting easy shots and taking spin off it, and I went out there today and really trusted what I practiced."

Last year Phil Mickelson used the Scottish Open at Castle Stuart as the springboard to his British Open title and his 68 leaves him well within touching distance of McIlroy.

Mickelson needs a jolt of confidence given that 'Lefty' has slipped outside the top 10 in the rankings and hasn't finished in the top 10 on the PGA Tour this season.

"I thought it was tough conditions," Mickelson said in an audio interview posted on the European Tour's website. "I was surprised to see some low scores out there because it didn't seem like it was playing easy, and the wind was pretty strong.

"I felt like I played well and had a good putting day. It was a good day."

Last year's U.S. Open champion, Justin Rose, was tied for 13th with a 69 but Jonas Blixt -- who tied for second at the Masters -- was well adrift following a 74.

BEIJING, China (CNN) -- Soon after I first came to visit China in the autumn of 1971, I saw a contingent of militia soldiers doing marching drills in Tiananmen Square. I was told they were rehearsing for the annual National Day parade on October 1, which people eagerly awaited.

Mao Zedong proclaims the founding of the People's Republic of China in Beijing on October 1, 1949.

Weeks later, however, I was informed that the civilian and military parade had been cancelled in the spirit of "simple-living and hard struggle," as Chairman Mao decreed. The real reason: Lin Biao, then defense minister and Mao's anointed successor, had reportedly died in a plane crash while attempting to flee the country after a failed coup attempt.

China's achievements in the last 60 years have come in zigs and zags. The best place to look back at what China went through in the past six decades is Tiananmen, or the Gate of Heavenly Peace. Behind it lies the Imperial Palace, or Forbidden City, where China's Emperors used to live. The emperor is now history, but Tiananmen remains Beijing's political center.

It was on the Tiananmen rostrum where Chairman Mao formally proclaimed the founding of the People's Republic. "The Chinese people have stood up!" he declared in a shrill Hunanese accent. For decades, the whole nation followed Mao loyally. He emphasized political mobilization of the common man, especially the peasantry. In Mao's ideology, the Chinese people found hope in a New China, wherein citizens would always have a bowl of rice to eat and clothes to wear.

Mao proved to be good at fighting but poor at governing. He pushed sweeping socio-economic initiatives and strident ideological campaigns, often with disastrous results. During two political campaigns in the late 1950s, over 550,000 "rightist" intellectuals were persecuted and imprisoned. The Great Leap Forward led to widespread famine and the deaths of an estimated 30 million Chinese.

In the late 1960s, Mao would again stand in the Tiananmen rostrum to launch the Cultural Revolution. There, he rallied hundreds of thousands of young Chinese -- the radical Red Guards -- who lionized him like a demi-god. "To rebel is justified!" they proclaimed. They rebelled against everything and wreaked havoc everywhere. For ten years, China was condemned to political turmoil and economic malaise. Perhaps the only factor that kept the country from total collapse was the people's incomparable resilience and their ability to "chi ku" (eat bitterness, or bear hardship).

Mao's reign is also credited for positive changes. He banned child brides and polygamy, built Beijing's first subway line and started a space program with China's first satellite launch. In 1972, the People's Republic of China replaced the Republic of China (Taiwan) in the United Nations.

Still, for three decades under Mao, China tried to break out of its backwardness and isolation but only met modest success.

Mao died in 1976 and his remains are kept in a mausoleum in Tiananmen Square.  Take an audiovisual tour of Mao's hometown »

Soon enough, Deng Xiaoping emerged as the new paramount leader. Deng overturned most of Mao's policies and embarked upon reforming the economy and opening up the country to the outside world.

His quest for stability and prosperity took off in the early 1990s, propelled by his pragmatic policies to entice foreign investments and build China's private sector.

Just south of Tiananmen, one landmark stands as a symbol of Deng's bold open-door policy. In the early 1980s, the first Kentucky Fried Chicken outlet opened in Beijing, just a stone's throw away from Mao's mausoleum. Today, the fast food chain still does brisk business, with a large portrait of founder Colonel Sanders hanging on the three-story building.

Not every Chinese embraced Deng's reform and open-door policy. Old Guards and conservatives in and outside the communist party accepted Deng's reform policies, but with a great deal of misgiving.

The backlash came to a boil in 1989, when Tiananmen witnessed an outpouring of support for the students who called for freedom and democracy, and more reform. After six weeks of heady demonstrations, the Tiananmen movement was brutally suppressed.  See landmark moments in China's 60 years »

China has returned to world prominence through a 20-year economic boom, the speed and breadth of which is unparalleled in the history of mankind. China went from global economic irrelevance to the third largest economy in the world. The People's Liberation Army, no longer a "junkyard army," has emerged as a formidable military power capable of launching a human being into space and shooting down satellites.  Take a look inside China's space program »

The People's Republic of China marks its 60th anniversary on Thursday with 300,000 participants and 60 floats to highlight the country's achievements in various sectors of the society and economy.  See anniversary preparations in photos »

A military parade will feature goose-stepping troops marching down the Avenue of Eternal Peace. Modern military hardware -- tanks, armed personnel carriers, missiles, helicopters and fighter jets, all made in China -- will be on display. Fireworks will cap the festivities.  See how China has changed over 60 years »

But pomp and pageantry aside, China's phenomenal economic growth over the decades has triggered unintended consequences: rising unemployment, growing income gaps, endemic corruption, rising criminality, environmental degradation and social malaise. Millions of Chinese live on less than $1 a day, and social tension sometimes boil over into violent clashes.

Chinese president Hu Jintao is pushing to promote democracy in the party, curb corruption and seek a harmonious society. "To build a well-off society for 1.3 billion people and a democratic, civilized, harmonious and modernized country," he recently told a communist party meeting, "China must firmly push reform and opening up and stick to its own path."  Meet some of China's young communists »

Like the cutting-edge CCTV tower intended to formally open this year but didn't after a celebratory fireworks display went awry and caused a fire, China's great achievements stand side by side with daunting challenges.

(CNN) -- Loud music pumps through huge speakers, front row guests cheer and a parade of stunning models electrifies the gleaming catwalk -- welcome to Africa Fashion Week London.

Currently in its third year, the glamorous event saw dozens of big names and up-and-coming designers from across the continent descending on the UK capital's hip district of Shoreditch to unveil their latest stylish creations.

"Our platform is about promoting emerging and established Africa-inspired designers," said Ronke Ademiluyi, founder of the event, held from August 1 to 3.

"The main thing is to bring attention to them, to showcase their creativity to the world so they get more global recognition for what they do and more appreciations for their brands as well."

Vibrant colors

The runways featured designs from countries such as Nigeria, Ghana, South Africa, Congo, Zambia, Zimbabwe, Botswana, Kenya and Morocco -- but also from the diaspora, including Britain and the Caribbean.

In many ways, the event reaffirmed why Africa-inspired designs are fast catching the eye of the fashion world.

Mixing current trends with traditional patterns, more than 60 designers graced the catwalk with a wide array of colorful creations -- everything from show-stopping evening gowns and modern urban casualwear to bold textured prints and chic accessory lines.

Glorious colors in the desert: Darfur's fashionable women

Ademiluyi says the continent's fashion today "represents a fusion of contemporary and African designs" awash with "a lot of vibrant colors and tribal trends."

Amongst those giving a modern twist to traditional styles is Nigerian designer Fashola Olayinka with her Lagos-based label "MOOFA Designs." Her latest collection, "Ashake" is celebrating the "very powerful and strong women" who "turn heads wherever they go to."

"That's basically what's the collection is about," says Olayinka, who started the label about four years ago. "Women who are very feminine and sexy."

Read this: Congo's designer dandies

The young designer says that despite the existing challenges, such as frequent power cuts, it's very exciting being part of Nigeria's fashion scene right now.

"We work hard and we party hard, so it's been really fun and it's a growing process in Nigeria," she says. "Nigerians like to dress up and a lot of people in Nigeria are now wearing their own fabrics."

Profile boost

But despite the growing interest in African designs, Ademiluyi says that many of the continent's promising talents still find it difficult to break into the mainstream international shows.

She says that for many of them, the week is a chance to shine on the international stage.

"A lot of them are talented but they're struggling," she says. "They don't have support from anywhere, so what we do is we support them -- it's an affordable platform for the designers to showcase their talents to the world."

Read this: Taking African colors to America's Deep South

South African fashion artist Steve Mandy agrees. He says that events like this help participants boost their profile both internationally and at home.

"You can meet some really important people here and I have already met some great people here that I think I'll do business with," says Durban-based Mandy, known for hand-painting on dresses and t-shirts.

"The other thing is the spin-off in terms of your own image, in terms of our audience back in South Africa -- the fact that you can say that you did African Fashion Week it promotes you and helps your product to gain integrity."

Looking ahead, Ademiluyi says the goal is to hold the event twice a year and also establish a supply platform that would make the designers' creations more accessible to the world.

"For a lot of them, after Africa Fashion Week, that's it," she says. "The clients don't know where to get their brand, so we hope to support the designers a lot more by opening up a distribution outlet."

(CNN) -- Authorities scoured the national park around Washington's Mount Rainier on Sunday for a man they say fatally shot a park ranger and fled into the woods, a park spokeswoman said.

The suspect remained at large Sunday night, believed to be somewhere in the expansive park, Mount Rainier National Park spokeswoman Lee Taylor said.

Four to five feet of snow is on the ground, including about two feet of fresh powder, where the gunman escaped.

"There's a lot of snow on the ground, (and) it would be difficult to move through quickly," Taylor told CNN. "And it's heavily forested."

The bloodshed began with what the spokesman called "a normal traffic stop" around 10:30 a.m. PT (1:30 p.m. ET). But the suspect didn't heed a request to pull over, prompting a ranger to radio ahead requesting assistance.

Park ranger Margaret Anderson, 34, responded to that call and set up her patrol vehicle as a roadblock.

"When he (the shooter) arrived at that spot, he got out (of his car) and fatally shot her," said Taylor.

The suspect then ran into the spacious national park, whose border is about 50 miles southeast of Seattle. The park -- the centerpiece being the 14,410-foot Mount Rainier, which is considered an active volcano -- comprises 235,625 acres in the Cascade Range.

Entrances to the park were closed after the shooting. Taylor said that authorities were able to "evacuate most of the people ... safely," with more than 100 people "holed up in our primary visitor center" with food, water and five law enforcement officers standing guard.

"We don't want to try to have those people get to their vehicle and caravan down the park road where it could be dangerous, being sniped at by a gunman," the spokeswoman said Sunday night. "So for now, they are going to sit tight in the visitor center."

Anderson was the mother of a 4-year-old and 1-year-old and the wife of a fellow park ranger, according to Taylor.

A ranger at Mount Rainier for the past four years, Anderson "was on the job not for money or for glory, but out of a love for wild places and the national parks," said Taylor.

She is survived by her husband, who is also a park ranger, as well as a 4-year-old and a 1-year-old.

"She was a person with a quick smile, a very gentle person, a very competent ranger," said Taylor. "This gunman took the life of somebody who had a great deal to live for and was making great contributions to society by being a national park ranger."

CNN's Adam Shivers contributed to this report.